those themes are I think beautifully and
brilliantly expressed the ethic of
command and duty and honor and social
inequality in the dunk and egg novels in
a form that's not yet so big and noisy
and magical doesn't have any dragons
doesn't really have much magic to speak
of and with it's going to draw in
readers who think I'm too cool to read a
fantasy novel that has dragons in it and
a lot of us who are fans of the books
today we thought that at some point so
why would I read a novel of a that has
dragons in it you know forget that huh
that new yen this is a very unusual
video in many ways most of my song of
ice and fire videos so far have been
really long format I think this is going
to be relatively brief if it's too brief
I might wait and attach two or three
videos together I'm recording this
actually with no electricity natural
sunlight coming in running on battery
power we just had the power cut out here
I thought it spontaneously come on
camera and do some talk I'm going to
cover a few different issues but I'm
actually all my videos are unscripted
but in this case I don't even have a
bullet point lift I have since the last
video I made about A Song of Ice and
Fire
done a reread of feast dance feast for
crows dancer dragons and I used one of
the funky new chapter orders you guys
know about this there are people who
want to reshuffle the chapter orders
it's not it's not worth it guys you keep
it's taking you the original authors
chapters I also I guess I can say I get
a reread of Duncan egg as audiobooks i
listened through a second time
those protists I was really encouraging
my girlfriend I have a new girlfriend
too to just do the Duncan egg not to do
the whole you know a song by certifier
you know opus but I was talking to her
about the fact those really are kind of
really useful key to the series I got
some fan mail from of you or somebody's
watched online Song of Ice and Fire bids
asking me about don't connect and it's
interesting there are people who roll
with the series heavy people who are
really serious fans would have never
read to Duncan tag novels and that's a
huge mistake that is a huge mistake
other things in my mind here you know
apropos Duncan egg I notice that the
boiled leather audio our that's a
Podcast Boyle leather they put out their
first really critical discussion of the
first novel of Game of Thrones and you
know I'm not saying that as an insult
it's critical in that they actually do
criticize the quality of writing they
talk about the extent to which in Game
of Thrones the book is not a flawless
masterpiece I kind of felt like boy I
wonder if this is going to go sure in a
new era in the fandom of people really
talking about shortcomings in the
writing not just in the organization of
the text and not kind of minor things
like people don't like Dark Star but
some specific specific seeds but they
were they were really getting to grips
with shortcomings in the design
execution the book as a whole uh what
the reason why I mention that at this
moment is that it seems striking to me
that uh it seems triking to me that
George came out with these prequels in
the way that he did and in my reread of
them I really felt like the Duncan egg
trilogy so far the Drunken the Duncan
egg short stories they weren't attempts
to revise the problems with a game of
Thrones with the first novel by giving
you an alternate way to commence the
series and again so I would broadly
agree the first novel Game of Thrones
I'm not going to say it's poorly written
some parts are extremely well written
the prologue is beautifully beautifully
written you guys may have lost touch
that but the books they're so massive
they're not at a consistently high
literary standard but that prologue the
description of the trees swaying in the
wind like fingers against the sky the
description of the equipment being
carried by the men and the way that
relates to the overall you know critique
of feudalism that's found throughout the
books there are many many ways in which
it's incredibly carefully incredibly
well written that prologue but in
looking at a game of Thrones the first
novel not the TV show in looking at that
is an introduction to the political
ethical themes and in terms of
world-building even introducing a series
of all it's quite poor it doesn't work
that well we're
thing the extent to which the whole
series is really improvised I thought it
was telling that when instead you start
from Dunkin egg if you treat that as
volume one its volume zero if you start
with the prequels that in a very
carefully a very shrewd manner
introduces you to the major political
themes the major magical themes and the
rules based system by which the
fictional world operates none of the
things that very very clearly introduces
you to the fact that dreams have a
special significance in this world the
nature of dreams and dreaming is handled
extremely well in those prequels and
also gets you ready to look at hosts
targaryen as a house that is all too
human is deeply flawed and yet in some
sense magical if you start with the
Duncan egg novels it's kind of
impossible to have a standard fantasy
novel view of House Targaryen all the
figures including you know the drunk in
the bar who we find out later is kind of
responsible for egg you know an egg
seems to be just a stable boy but terms
it isn't you know this this whole
scenario all those figures and that
drunk in the bar is having you know
dreams that are of symbolic significance
and so on you really get introduced the
mechanics of the world in a beautifully
planned way and when it starts you off
in the very first novel there's barely
any magic this is largely a kind of very
believable very historically real a
medieval reality or even I would even
say early Renaissance reality but you
know for a reader who's skeptical for a
reader who's interested in the kind of
political content or social commentary
or whatever someone who's not looking
for high fantasy dragons and
what-have-you it's certainly drawing in
that broader readership and saying hey
this isn't a dorky story about wizards
and warriors look it's starting you off
in the shallow end in terms of the
religious and magical themes which you
know by the end of the series in terms
of the books that are currently extent
the religious element that the jihadist
element really grows wildly out of
control as the series progresses you
know in the Iron Islands
King's Landing in Essos the religious
themes become larger as well as the
supernatural themes so I really I just
say broadly speaking I sympathize with
the sort of critical direction the bold
leather audio hours taken now and
looking back the book their discussion
of it
kind of all over the place it's how most
of their podcasts go it's by no means a
kind of thorough critique nor as the
critique even take on a direction but it
was refreshing to hear people who love
the series sit down and talk about the
shortcomings in how it was written and
ultimately we all of the face of the
fact that this book was not written
against a plan it was not written
against note line this is a series of
books that are really a grand experiment
in artistic improvisation so much so
that as you guys know it's documented
some of the prophecies were changed we
know one way or another there was a
version of a chapter of the prophecy in
it and then George the author went back
and adjusted the prophecy to reflective
you know later changes to the plot so
you know they're they're giveaways like
that but George is pretty open about
what his writing process is and how it
all works okay so that I think of cost
off my list of things to do although
again there's a super spontaneous video
I'm not really working against a a
written list one of the big big themes I
had in mind
in my last reread was the issue of
whether or not revenge really is the
kind of key to the morality of the book
series as a whole quite a few people
including Sean T Collins but others to
point to the significance of vengeance
and kind of claimed this one great
speech from ilaria Sam your approximate
name the widow the grieving widow of
Oberyn Martell the grieving widow of
Oberyn Martell is this one speech
dealing with vengeance and the cycle of
vengeance and how it's kind of bad and
sick and evil in its innocence the
poison destroying this this medieval
world that is one position to take on
the novels but in my last reread so
again in feast dance you know if you
really look at for example the case that
Davos has to make when he's on the East
Coast
when he's talking to the mermen God
what's their house name again sir when
he's in the east coast of North he's
taken prisoner he's putting he's put in
jail he's let out and so on sorry I'm
forgetting the host name out there but
anyway we have this series of very
peculiar politically charged dialogue
and when Davos is asked what his case is
what it is that Davos and Stannis can
offer in trying to recruit these
northern houses to support Stannis's
cause the answer he gives is vengeance
that's the only answer he can give he
can't offer them money or land or you
can't offer them much of a hope of
victory what he is offering in the wake
of the red wedding he is going around
the north trying to recruit people to
stand aside and the only thing he can
offer them as vengeance he can't offer
them much of a navy look he can't offer
them you know and he can't even offer
them honor you know in terms of a war
being defined with honor which is
certainly another major major deal ago
this is ultimately a dishonorable and
treasonous plot that he's trying to
enroll the various houses in but the one
thing he can put on the table in these
negotiations is revenge revenge for what
happened to red wedding and etc I saw
that episode alone I mean you could
raise others that have contrasting views
of revenge to the books but I think
actually even if we just look at that
episode there is a real reason to
question this approach of seeing
vengeance as the dividing line between
good and evil in these books I mean I
think you could have a very coherent
kind of semiotic analysis of the books
that really looks at them first and
foremost as a critique of feudalism
instead that this is really an attack on
the fuel system and talking about the
inevitable internation violence that's
created by feudalism now maybe that's a
little bit too broad but I mean it is
interesting in broad brushstrokes I
don't know why the people kind of avoid
this
he gives us a world that very much like
the historical Europe it does contain
democracy but democracy is linked to
slave
which is of course true in ancient
Greece in Athens they had democratic
system but was it was a slave society
with democratic elements I would also
say you know Venice is really not given
enough credit in history of Europe these
days then as for many many long
centuries did have a meaningful
democracy and that included actually
women could vote if they were the head
of the household which they frequently
were because men would die in war and
never be a senior female representative
the household so not everyone could vote
in Venice the heads of households so a
certain class of people were voting and
involved in a parliament in both the
democracy in Venice but Venice did
represent a meaningful form of democracy
with democracy for many many centuries I
guess they'd say in the medieval world
imperfect but also since Marx remember
it was but it was it was a huge
inspiration to people living in you know
far-flung parts of Europe like Russia
and England that at that time were just
straight kingdoms and what-have-you many
of them looked up to Venice but Venice
also was a slave society they were at
war with other slaveholding empires and
slaveholding kingdoms and slaves were
traded there and so on so you know a
okay I'm simplifying history the real
history of slavery and Italy's
involvement of it and the changing
position the papacy is incredibly
complex please composites and people
think but don't you know about this
people edict yeah I do actually but it
was all those complexities that aside a
sauce is a side of the world of politics
the human experience that does offer
different interesting flawed models of
democracy but those democracies are
linked to slavery and Westeros has zero
democracy but also has zero slavery and
again I think that is very much a
dichotomy that late medieval Europe put
it this way those are those are themes
that emerge in the study of medieval
Europe although of course there's no
perfect representative of either side I
remember there's a comment in Leviathan
by Thomas Hobbes that you know the study
of ancient Greek had inspired so many
rebellions and treasonous plots and
civil wars in England we just
not even all of Europe that he said you
know we can truly say now you know no
other civilization has bought the
learning of dead languages and
literature at so great a price I think
he said that's so great a price in blood
those ideas of democracy from Athens and
again to some extent from proximate
examples like Venice
you know many centuries later those did
inspire and guide revolutionaries and
dissidents in the long you know in the
Dark Ages so to speak and in the
Renaissance and what-have-you
despite very very obvious flaws those
societies presented even a cursory
glance even if you're just reading
Aristotle you take a look at Aristotle's
constitution of Athens
you know it doesn't take a genius to see
that this doesn't represent an ideal
this was an all too human set of
compromises cross station of Athens by
the way you can see very clearly the
tribal element of government that's
almost always removed so this brings me
to another one of the teams I want to
talk about here in addition to the
rereads I've just mentioned and again
I'll just restate I do think it's really
important to read the Duncan AG novels
they're an integral part of the corpus
as it now exists they're canon and they
are better than Game of Thrones as an
introduction of the world as a first
nerd that's why I was encouraging my own
girlfriend to read them I really feel
even though they're redeeming qualities
are subtle they really have like
redeeming qualities I've also been
reading some of the Thousand worlds
books God you know let me tell you that
saying from george RR martin that his
only interest is in writing about the
human heart in conflict with itself that
is true but we can say that it is true
to a fault i mean a lot of it science
fiction stories a lot of thousand worlds
stories they are just about human
sentimentality and nothing else like
there's nothing out there the story is
just sentimental it's just about human
feelings and the conclusion of the plot
if there is a plot in some cases there's
no plot there's just an aesthetic and
wallowing in some emotions and some
emotional purple hell and then it's over
that it Peters out like wow this is a
really sentimental author and I'm glad
he evolved past that in more
some of the stories document like 1979
so he has improved as a writer but boy
they they're really to a remarkable
extent where other science fiction
writing is not plot driven and it's not
even politically automatically driven
it's just about as he says the human
heart in conflict with itself so very
very strange to examine um one of the
themes that Martin is really interested
in consistently through from his science
fiction through Song of Ice and Fire
is this idea of devolved races devolved
species and some of you watching this
video now will have first encountered my
channel because I made the claim that
Preston Jacobs had not interpreted a
certain story correctly that he had not
interpreted in seven times to never kill
man correctly so that's not what
summarizing but that is a science
fiction story always saying no the main
turning point the main kind of kink and
applause the unexpected irony that the
plot is playing with is that the people
perceived as aliens are not aliens
they're devolved human beings now quite
a few people wrote in to me to complain
that this was impossible and it's not
impossible go back and read the text
carefully as I said there's quite a few
hints dropped in it and if you don't
accept that then a lot of things in the
plot or meaning once they're kind of
there for no reason when you do accept I
see okay so this was a subtle little
poke in the ribs to the reader well
guess what if you read a song for laia
which I had not read time I made that
video a song for liya is based on the
same trick and the the so four thing in
something like it's not so subtle it's
explicitly stated you that the people
they perceived as aliens are in fact
devolved humans humans who are somehow
cut off from civilization and in both
stories in both a song for liya and
seven times never kill man in both
stories the the timeline is admitted to
be incoherent like it's admitted to be
somehow impossible so in a song for liya
we're told that this alien species
years to be older the human beings to
have lived on the same planet
continuously I think is a 13,000 years
like that they have a civilization
that's so old they couldn't possibly
have been colonists from Earth cut off
from Earth and likewise some people were
at intermediate complain that seven
times never killed man the alien species
in that if you actually read the whole
thing carefully in the thousand world's
cosmology it doesn't make sense that
they could they could have been
colonized from Earth and then cut off
from Earth right both not both book
novellas are both short stories they're
going to say both play with this eight
and it's probably just because George
was interested in toying with that idea
I'm sure one of the other novels of
forgetting the name now it also talks
about the fact that most of the crazy
theories and rumors in this fictional
universe of far-flung colonies being cut
off in there didn't make sense and we're
impossible that it wasn't possible for
colony ships to reach that far within so
many centuries and so on and so forth
and yet those rumors persisted so that
should been told in many different
stories in a thousand world corpus that
the chronology of how different species
ended up in different places doesn't
make sense or is mysterious or self
contradictory whether or not that's
because he was interested in time travel
or some loophole or just something you
wanted to play with or if is just part
of this overall sense of keeping the
reader kind of off balance
the guys at boiled leather they've
commented that George's writing style in
some ways resembles film noir in that he
wants to pull you into a world where
there's tremendous complexity and kind
of incoherence of information you know
you get the sense of political
complexity you get the sense of plots
and intrigues all around but as in a
film noir where it seems like there are
so many plots going on there's so much
corruption you know you have the kind of
ostentatious presence of police
enforcement in a conical film noir to
our story but at the same time you have
this sense of anomie of lawlessness of
aimlessness of a you know world and a
plot that's moving off shelter at the
same time that's certainly slight in
both the science fiction and I'd say in
the first half of the Song of Ice and
Fire series as we have
now now I am not saying that he does
this to make puzzles that are impossible
to unravel
I think aesthetically it's giving you
the reader the feeling that there is so
much to unravel in every direction
nobody can know it all and he has said
that he said it explicitly
I remember one of the story lines where
he's talking about the fact that there
are so many space aliens there's so much
that's unknowable the what's the one
about the hub of planet where this guy
gets abandoned zone quite a quite a few
of the stories play with that it's you
know there's no point quoting this stuff
chapter and verse we're just talking
about general thematic concerns em in
any case in in looking at this story a
song for Leia it's not so mysterious
here in a song for liya these telepathic
protagonists the two main characters
arrive and they're introduced to this
alien race as aliens and they conclude
openly this isn't in the subtext so
unlike seven times over come on it is
very explicit in the text they say this
is a group of human beings who have
rests this is some kind of colony and
they compare it to they say this is like
a colony of human beings that was cut
off from Earth and then their level of
civilization and maybe even their
biology and their brain development
arrests that somehow these people are
human or there are there are subspecies
of human or they're a deviant group from
humans but you know they're not truly
alien so I'm poking in this comet after
the fact many people want to speculate
that somehow the children of the forests
represent a species of reptiles
something wildly alien or wildly magical
although that is possible in A Song of
Ice and Fire
if we're basically taking the view that
Georgia's past experience writing
thousand worlds
predicts the type of themes he wants to
play with in A Song of Ice and Fire
then we should expect the exact opposite
because again and again people who are
apparently alien get revealed as human
all too human and that even includes
balloons by the way so in bitter blooms
the female temptress character Morgan
eluding to Morgan la Fey she's
apparently an offworlder at the start
whether that's just a human from another
planet or some kind of other species or
we wonder if maybe she's an immortal or
something very long-lived alien and it's
in there just one line but it's revealed
to us an inclusion a story that no she's
a local native of that planet because
she says the protagonist I wanted you to
believe this was real she presents with
these loose I wanted you to believe this
is real the same way I thought it was
real when I when I first came here and
it's clear from that line that she's a
local person she's from that planet who
somehow took over that spaceship and
can't use it anymore but his spaceship
can no longer leave the planet whether
that's because the person immediately
before her was a true alien shook it
over or perhaps you replaced her she's
the next in a succession of local
peasant girls who somehow took over the
spaceship in this medieval world but the
point is if we're trying to pin down a
pattern or a thematic approach here the
thematic approach again and again in
bitter blooms in seven times never come
an and absolutely explicitly not as a
matter of subtext in song for liya is
that he presents us with seemingly alien
and seemingly magical groups that turn
out to be human not just human
biologically you know human rather than
aliens but they turn to be human in
their psychology in their motivations in
the explanation for the mystery
explaining why their society is so
different from ours in every single case
all of them the purpose of this trope is
a condemnation of religion religion in
general but specifically above all else
the role of the Catholic Church in
forcing the regression of modern Western
society so yes it's faith in religion in
general in A Song of Ice and Fire
something that could apply to Islam or
you know
theory could be applied to Hinduism but
yes clearly above all else
that's the thematic focus and the
political purpose and I can't even say
there's a link from thousand worlds to
some of us and fire this way it is the
same theme it is the same group of the
author's tricks with absolutely the same
message for the reader to pick up on in
seven times never kill men that same
theme is played with but in a manner
that is so subtle you can miss it but
what do they have in common in both a
song for liya and seven times never kill
man very very clearly the reason for the
regression is religion period oh they're
different science fiction religions both
involving I guess something like
telepathy I don't want to get do too
much detail in seven times never come
man there is a religion that provides
this alien species who are again really
secretly developed human beings provides
them with peace order good government
they have no war as far as we know
nobody is starving but they have a very
simple utilitarian culture they never
achieve the great things that humanity
achieves instead they've progressed into
these kind of simple-minded you know
culture and also even there the
reproduction is is controlled by this
religion there are sexual urges they
don't overpopulate they don't have
problems resulting from from
overpopulation they live in in an
unnatural balance with nature okay in a
song for liya very different scenario
because the relationship between the the
religion and the believers is predatory
that the the God in quotation marks this
religion actually does devour the
believers when they're about fifty years
of age and it's explicitly stated in the
text again this is not subtext not
interpretation it's explicitly stated in
the text that they have no war and
virtually no crime they have very little
crime very little murder but it's said
almost jokingly they have a 100 percent
suicide rate that everyone in the
culture aspires to at some point after
40 or
of age normal around 50 years of age to
give themselves over to this religion so
both are very clearly toying with the
same horror anti religion philosophy
that he espouses now there are other
science fiction writers who are
seriously interested in this I have not
read it at all but the Golden Compass
series the Golden Compass is a series of
books and the first part was made into a
movie I saw that movie I wasn't paying
that much attention I was my girlfriend
at the time was paying a lot of
attention to me I was literally off the
couch with my girlfriend with that movie
play it's a long time ago doubt but oh
by what I was kind of trying to follow
the movie because the one thing that was
interesting there was oh here's a
science fiction story that is really
seriously denouncing the Catholic Church
the role the Catholic Church in the
history of Europe now likewise I do
think we can say that one of the major
themes were George in these thousand
world books and to some extent in Game
of Thrones but less so in Game of
Thrones than in those stories of his
measured thousand world George does have
this view that the significance of the
Catholic Church in medieval Europe was
the regression of civilization was the
that civilization devolved in that
period as interesting this this features
and I think all of his political and
moral and religious teacher thinking
George you guys may have already noticed
I don't in general like to make
predictions about the book I just think
it's not a great use of our time and
intellect in offering this kind of
analysis however I'll poke in here a lot
of people would like to forget that they
made videos or wrote articles
interpreting the text as if the
direction the story was going in was
that Stannis would save the day that the
religion of Stannis this bloodthirsty
monotheistic religion that burns people
at the stake was going to be the savior
for Westeros to some extent and if
you've read these thousand world's books
that so clearly have this very very
strong anti religion message anti
medieval Catholic message
especially you have to know that is not
possible for our author the progress of
the TV show has left all of us wondering
what is going to happen with Stannis's
plotline we have no idea really what
happens next with Stannis in the year
2017 as things stand however it is
completely impossible that the moral of
the story is that people should rally
around the religion that the author
quite literally demonized this and that
his whole corpus of works prior to a
Song of Ice and Fire makes makes very
clear the moral this story can't be that
for everyone to support Stannis and his
monotheistic religion as the answer on
the contrary it seems inevitable that
just like a song for Leah he's going to
tell us that religion is bad and wrong
and evil even when it really can offer
you happiness even when it really does
have magic even in these impossible
hypothetical science fiction scenarios
even even when religion actually does
offer you an afterlife and actually does
offer you happiness in this life which
is what we see in a self-reliant still
he wants to argue that religion is evil
and in parallel to that in seven times
never kill man even if religion could
offer peace and harmony for all society
which it doesn't in our world in the
real world doesn't at all but he creates
a science fiction world where it
actually offers peace and harmony still
religion is bad and wrong and evil still
it leads to this regression devolution
mental deadening of man and you know the
regression of human beings to something
more despicable than an ape that that's
again that's not subtle those are two
stories that come down so heavily on
that side so whatever the final
commentary isn't on religion these books
we've already seen it with the religion
the seven the religion the seven started
out into the novel seeming so harmless
and charming it's not harmless it's
terrifying the danger that's lurking
there in belief is shown to us by the
point where the Atman novels now the
fact that no you know we may see it
earlier on from the perspective of Sansa
Stark as just so many charming songs and
what-have-you her education around
fireside yeah well there are a lot of
things that teenage girls don't know and
don't want to know the organized
religion and what aspects of human
nature it exploits and then we get to
see that when the streets of King's
Landing are running red with blood you
have this major religious uprising and
the whole you know bizarre plot between
Cersei Lannister and the new head of the
faith uh we've already seen that play
out with the religion to seven I think
it's quite likely we will see a similar
subversion of you know the red god of
Stannis is religion and quite possibly
of every other religion storyline will
get this same harsh treatment if we're
going to look at Georgia's pass work as
a predictor of what he's going to do in
his present future work and to some of
you other YouTube channels who actually
had videos up arguing that Stannis is
going to be the one true king and we're
going to resolve the plot I'm laughing
at you you know who you are
Darrell I think he subscribes to the
view that Athens in Rome had this very
very high level of civilization before
Christianity and that all of
civilization progressed and devolved and
people in effect became stupider and the
quality of life declined and so on
everything became more brutal and
simplistic under the influence of what
was for centuries an incredibly powerful
form of Christianity that dominated the
European mind economy soul what have you
now it's interesting I do not believe in
the theory of devolution in this sense I
think it's an appealing kind of cultural
justification that many people subscribe
to and I've met many people with PhDs
who care about this issue passionately
and webside with mystery of Asia too in
a very different way by the way we
absolutely if you look at Sri Lanka you
look at the apogee of Sri Lankan
civilization and then a period of
decline and devolution afterwards there
are many different civilizations around
the world that had a period of self
evident greatness and it's self evident
frankly because of architecture in most
cases there's great architecture great
stone temples Buddhist temples or you
know in Athens great monuments left in
stone or in Egypt and then you have a
presumed Dark Age following after words
of decline
devolution what have you now there is
one professor in particular at
University of Victoria who I met and
spoke to face to face a couple times and
he has a PhD in ancient Greece and Rome
you know but he does both classics but
he really believed that ancient Athens
was paradise and I had done enough
reading I've read basically all the
classics I've read Aristotle and Plato
and Thucydides and Herodotus you know
it's not my expertise do I have read
heavily in that you know upset as I was
guys like yeah well I mean I see why you
feel that way but oh and he was so deep
this professor he was so deep into this
illusion of the lost greatness of Athens
that you know he refused to accept even
that slavery was a problem and except
there any trenchant lead offending oh no
no that's all a misunderstanding you
know you have to look at this particular
paragraph from Arizona know this later
he was really claiming that the slaves
had a good quality of life and that
slavery wasn't like that at all
yeah and he was really really a deep
believer and he actually claimed I saw
him saying this in class he claims that
in ancient Athens people had a higher
quality of life than we have today
ridiculous he was basing this on on
archaeological remains of the houses
people lived in like the size and
quality of housing it was normal and I'm
like aha you know what else is really
great is soap you know doesn't really
great is not dying of cholera but I mean
this professor was really really deep
into this to my mind science fiction
view of Athens in Rome as having
achieved it's fantastically high quality
of life and levels situated civilization
and then the Catholic period seems like
this tremendous decline
now I've already for shouted my view of
this is not is that it's not true at all
it's very easy for me to see how people
construct that narrative in their own
minds for one thing the narrowness of
just looking at the most grandiose city
block of Athens just looking at the most
privileged class in
the most privileged city effect in that
period of history is already misleading
right yeah well how was life in in what
would later become Prague in this same
theory how was life in what would later
become the Czech Republic during this
period ends do you know when you look at
this when you expand in terms of the
social classes you're considering
looking at the slaves and not just the
aristocrats looking at many cities not
just one looking at the countryside the
sense of the regression really changes
now of course I also I mean I share you
know George RR Martin's sentiment that
it's very regretful it is it is
something to be regretted the European
civilization declined in this period of
piety and piety in a religion that I
despise I mean I think that when you
pray you're talking to yourself
I think the Catholic God does not exist
and that many of the things that
Catholic Chur did both in the name of
Empire and in name social order are
frankly evil sure and I would have
preferred if during the Dark Ages it can
imagine how much better it would have
been if instead Europe had been
conquered by tera vaada Buddhists
Buddhism is not a perfect relationship
and stretch the imagination it
definitely has its own its own problems
but in terms of sexual freedom
intellectual freedom personal
responsibility and indeed ethical issues
like vegetarianism the treatment of
animals indeed the attitude towards war
the attitude towards torture torture is
a huge feature of Catholic society but
again torture was a huge feature of
Roman society ancient Rome look at the
protocol for torture in Rome they would
torture you before you even questioned
you were tortured not nun even to prove
you were guilty you were tortured prior
to questioning at the first stage there
was an initial round of torture before
we even talked to you so anyway um and
uh whether you were beaten with steel or
wood in that first round of torture was
actually determined by your social class
player placed in that social hierarchy
so if you were a man of high standing
and high education you could request to
be beaten with wooden rods instead of
steal nice bunch of guys anyway I ate
ancient rope pardon me
ancient Roman each an acid is definitely
their own sense of barbarity so just say
broadly speaking George RR Martin's
subscription to a kind of
post-apocalyptic view of you know the
lost grandeur of a prior civilization
very clearly a huge theme in the
Thousand worlds book series and a
significant theme in a Song of Ice and
Fire a significant theme the Preston
Jacobs has expanded on considerably this
serves kind of two or three functions
one very clearly in thousand worlds less
so and so as fire it's part of his
depiction of religion as evil keep it at
that really as part of his evaluation of
evil and as part of his evaluation of
medieval society as such um
I'd also say it serves a very peculiar
political function throughout you know
what does it mean to the people of Sri
Lanka that they think of themselves as
living in the aftermath of a kind of
national failure that they look back on
these beautiful stone monuments and
which are fabulous by the way I mean
genuinely the ancient monuments of Sri
Lanka are much more beautiful and much
more impressive than anything I ever saw
in Europe I've seen a lot of ancient
monuments in Europe really they have
these fabulous fabulous remnants both
Buddhist and just aristocratic just you
know palaces for the aristocrats how how
does it shape their national
consciousness indeed their sense of
ethnic nationalism even their sense of
racism to look at themselves as the
children of a once great civilization
that laughs into decadence that's that's
a powerful powerful historical negative
historico narrative the cheeks how
people see themselves shapes how they
see other nations and indeed shapes how
they see the role of religious ideology
and the political ideology in their
history and I mean likewise you know I
do think that George is setting us up
for some payoff in that
respect whether it's a commentary on the
politics of the real world or just a
commentary on the politics of Westeros
president Jacobs has certainly drawn
attention to some incredibly subtle
strands you know in the sense that
there's a lost civilization of Valyria
but even the sense there's a lost
civilization of Crowe Ain the sense that
there's a lost civilization of the Iron
Islands you know they're all these
fundamentally conservative backward
looking nation-states the Iron Islands
is absurd but it's very sincere those
people see themselves trying to get back
to the old way and there's several
different versions the old way that's
the kind of complexity built into this
world right
several different competing visions of
what their lost glory was supposed to be
and how they're going to recapture it
the sense of political leaders now being
in the shadow of a once great
civilization that they they have to
resume certainly a major major theme and
one that it's a rare case when I can say
I really do not sympathize with George's
approach actually actually I'm hostile
to that reading of you know modern
Western civilization or real Medieval
and Renaissance history Kay wrapping it
up I covered maybe three major topics in
this video let's ask the question do any
of these really matter
third things first yes this issue of the
lost greatness of a past civilization
really matters it's huge and you see it
even in the drama surrounding the faith
of the seven in the capital city and
this notion of them trying to get back
to their roots and try to revive
something for the past I think if you
made a flowchart of all the players in
the game where we're at right now in the
novels how many of them are
fundamentally backward-looking
I mean they're already in the dark ages
and they just want to make it darker
they're not looking forward to something
progressive and positive in the future
that's better they're looking back to a
past historical appeal again west hurts
the islands or the faith of the seven in
the capital city this sense of a a
restoration and chasing after the spirit
of the lost greatness of their fallen
civilization we see that from so many
angles
I think there are very very few players
that actually have a progressive or
forward-looking ideology of any kind now
again the exception you can look at
someone like Daenerys Targaryen
I think everyone okay not everyone the
majority of people seem to miss the
extent to which the later books are an
indictment of Daenerys and we're not
shown Daenerys The Liberator or shown
Daenerys who as soon as it's convenient
as soon as she feels uncomfortable is
selling of her own principle she says
she can elaborate the slaves and she
allows them to be sold back into slavery
she makes these terrible compromises she
makes the wrong decision at every turn
make a flowchart of the decisions
Daenerys makes it's like every single
one is the wrong decision you know you
know teenagers shouldn't be tyrants so
at an earlier video but I think it can
be questioned of my way we don't know
yet is Daenerys actually representing
something positive and precedent new or
is she offering something regressive
because in the at the end of the novel's
we have them right now this is recorded
in 2017 we don't have the next book yet
Daenerys ends by resolving that she's
going to go back to her house words to
fire and blood I mean okay she makes
this resolution when she's uh you know
dehydrated and hallucinating in the
middle of the desert and you know she's
got dissing amoebic dysentery or some
other illness like that we don't really
know what she's decided at this turning
point we have this major turning point
it may be that Daenerys decide that her
her function is to restore the grandeur
of hoster Garion or to restore the
grandeur of Valyria
we don't know she may now take a
fundamentally backward-looking
restoration aesthetic I'm trying to get
back to that grandeur in part because
her one progressive thought the
abolition of slavery in the creation of
new forms of government which included
also in the lesser City she conquered
you know before marrying that she tried
to set them up with a new form of
government you know she said okay I'm
going to assign these three people to
rule in a triumvirate it's going to be a
little bit more democratic and equal and
then that collapsed and they had civil
war and they ended up with a dictator
and then plague broke out you know all
of her experiments with
new forms of government general
oppressive forms of government the
smaller cities you conquer those end in
failure so maybe she now will basically
becoming backward-looking fascistic
conquer also we don't know but most of
the players in the game
most of the civilizations do indeed seem
in this way to be trying to restore some
sense of lost greatness
so does that matter yes it really
matters and is Jorge critical of it well
he is using it definitely as part of his
critique of religion and there is no
doubt that as these books have
progressed religion has become a greater
and greater theme does the theme of
devolve humanity matter yes to a massive
extent I think basically what we're
going to find is that all the non-human
species then A Song of Ice and Fire or
developed humans you know in a sense the
White Walkers are devolved humans kind
of we kind of had that revealed already
they're not a separate species that
evolved humans I think you know the
others there are a number of other
hominids that basically seem to be
devolved humans throughout the book and
that is a team he played with throughout
the thousand world series in a major way
I think it's a minor but significant
theme and Song of Ice and Fire and again
that's that's maybe a little bit
different from Preston Jacobs emphasis
on science fiction elements where he
doesn't want to believe as any there's
any magic but anyway whatever we'll see
we'll see if Preston wins is bad when
it's all sex I mean if his anti-magic
perspective on this the question of
revenge as a major moral criterion
throughout the books is this really
about vengeance is this an indictment of
vengeance or is this an indictment of
feudalism after my last reread I did
basically conclude that the Vengeance
centered model that many readers adopt
now again the guys at ball leather they
really championed that view that this is
kind of the ultimate theme overarching
these books is a kind of critique of of
vengeance and cycle vengeance
I find that less convincing
[Music]
you know I think that would be as
simplistic as saying that these books
are about justice are they
justice is discussed in a non trivial
way in a really meaningful way
throughout the books but I don't know
look at the plotline of Arya Stark is it
really about justice I mean how much is
this interested in justice and sure I'm
still open-minded I feel in a very
fundamental way the book the books have
a lot to say about feudalism but what is
it ultimately that they have to save of
feudalism one of the clear themes again
this is to my mind kind of a stronger
approach than putting emphasis on
vengeance is that he's really explaining
to you throughout how land ownership and
advancement the nature of advancement
and land ownership of feudalism force
people to constantly engage in petty
acts of violence and betrayal and
backstabbing and civil war that's very
clear to me but I don't think vengeance
is the main point there I think the main
point is ultimately like to put in
economic terms is actually about land
ownership the structure of feudalism and
the fact that feudalism literally puts
people in the position of constantly
happy to fight brother against brother
because that is the only way to inherit
land of you know vassal rebelling
against their feudal lord and so on and
so forth that there are there are
fundamental motivations for violence
built into the system because there's no
other way to press there's no other way
to find advancement so totally and in
many cases forget advancement there's
often there's no other way to even hold
on to the little bit of land that you've
got or the little bit of dignity is that
you've got a little bit of freedom that
you've got or to seek out wealth or even
just to avoid starvation and it's a
world where definitely as the story
progresses there is a there is more and
more starvation and now at the end we
come back to my first name I guess and
that is the really the outstanding and
underrated quality of the donkey nag
novels I don't really want to say much
more about that in this video but I
guess people already read a couple of
the books before they encountered them
they're used to the kind of grandeur and
scale and noise
of Clash of Kings and then the story and
the dunk and egg novel seems small and
quiet and you know subtle in its virtues
so maybe it's hard to appreciate if it's
not actually the first things you've
read but if you've passed it up you know
take a drink of cold water to clear your
palate I really make the effort to
appreciate the dunk and egg novels
because they they are brilliantly
introducing you to the themes and to the
world-building and to you know the
mechanics of dreams and post Targaryen
and their place in Westeros many many of
these one of those and and the critique
of social hierarchy which is already
there in the preface to to Game of
Thrones the preface being thrown
beautifully showing the relationship
between this young nobleman who's in a
position of authority in the Nights
Watch even though he doesn't deserve it
and this poor downtrodden peasant with
his ugly black sword in contrast to the
beautiful sword that the young nobleman
has you know this extremely expensive
store the contrasting their weapons and
their attitudes and the poor man has
experienced and knows what's going on
and the the noble the aristocrat doesn't
have that kind of experience
but he has gallantry and honor and it's
a sense of gallantry and honor that gets
him killed that gets them all killed
deep and that's all they are in that
preface but in the same way those those
themes the Upstairs Downstairs themes
the the ethic of command and duty and
honour and social inequality those
themes are think beautifully and
brilliantly expressed in the dunk and
egg novels in a form that's not yet so
big and noisy and magical doesn't have
any dragons doesn't really have much
magic to speak of and with it's going to
draw in readers who think I'm too cool
to read a fantasy novel that has dragons
in it and a lot of us who are fans of
the books today we thought that at some
point why would I read a novel of a that
has dragons in it you know forget that
huh man all right guys that's enough for
this video I am thinking about sitting
down with my girlfriend when the new
season the TV show comes out me and my
girlfriend sitting down face-to-face and
talking about reacting to the show my
girlfriend knows the books to a far
lesser extent that I do so she would
have more of an
disrespected to be asking questions that
somebody doesn't know the books will
would ask and you know I'm a jaded book
reader who feels that he already knows
too much to really appreciate the TV
show like I don't even have a love/hate
relationship with the TV show now I
basically just hate the TV show I'm sure
a lot of you feel that way